'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_intel.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_intel
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_intel \- Intel Hexadecimal file format
.XX "srec_intel(5)" "Intel Hexadecimal file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Intel's hexadecimal format allows binary files to be uploaded and
downloaded between two computer systems.  This type of format is widely
used when transferring programs and data between a computer system (such
as a PC, Macintosh, or workstation) and an emulator or evaluation board
for Intel microcontrollers and microprocessors.
.SS The File
Most Intel hex files contain only correctly formatted lines (see
the next section), which always start with an ASCII colon character.
Some systems generate various ``extensions'' which usually manifest as
lines which start with something else.  These ``extension'' lines may
or may not break other systems made by other vendors.  Caveat emptor.
.br
.ne 2i
.SS The Lines
The Intel hex format consists of 5 fields. These are the length field,
adress field, type field, data field, and the checksum.
The lines always start with an ASCII colon character.
.TS
allbox,center,tab(;);
lf(CW) l l l l l.
:;Length;Address;Type;Data;Checksum
.TE
.TP 8n
Length
The length field contains a one byte (two hexadecimal characters)
number containing the record length of the data.  It does not include
the address, type or checksum fields.
.TP 8n
Address
The address field contains a two byte (four character hexadecimal)
number indcating the staring address of the record.
.TP 8n
Type
The type field contains a one byte (two character hexadecimal) number
indicating the type of this record.  See below of a list of supported
values.
.TP 8n
Data
The data field contains
a variable number of bytes (each a two character hexadecimal number).
The lenght of the field is indicated by the earlier length field.
.TP 8n
Checksum
The checksum field is a one byte (two character hexadecimal) number
which contains a two's complement sum of the length, address, type and
data fields.
.br
.ne 2i
.SS The Types
The supported types are
.TP 8n
0
Data.
.TP 8n
1
Termination record.
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example Intel hex file.
It contains the data ``Hello, World'' to be loaded at address 0.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
:0D00000048656C6C6F2C20576F726C640AA1
:00000001FF
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 2i
.SH REFERENCE
This information comes (very indirectly) from
.I "Microprocessors and Programmed Logic,"
Second Edition,
Kenneth L. Short,
1987,
Prentice-Hall, 
ISBN 0-13-580606-2.
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
