'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 2001 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_spasm.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_spasm
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_spasm \- SPASM file format
.XX "srec_spasm(5)" "SPASM file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This format is the output of the Paralax SPASM assembler
(now defunct, I'm told).
The fiole contrains two columns of 160-bit hexadecimal coded values.
The fist column is the word address, the second column is the word data.
.PP
By default, SRecord treats this is big-endian data (the most
significant byte first).  If you want little endian order,
use the \-spasm-le argument instead.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 5.0 times
when represented with this format (5.5 times in Windows).
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example SPASM file.
It contains the data ``Hello, World'' to be loaded at bytes address 0x0100
(but remember, the file contents are word addressed).
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
0080 6548
0081 6C6C
0082 2C6F
0083 5720
0084 726F
0085 646C
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
