'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 2003 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_vmem.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_vmem.5
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_vmem \- vmem file format
.XX "srec_vmem(5)" "VMEM file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This format is the Verilog VMEM format.
This is a hex format suitable for loading into Verilog simulations using
the \f[CW]$readmemh\fP call.
.LP
\fIIf you have a more accurate description of this file format,
or a URL for one, please email me.
.LP
Each line is of the form
.RS
.nf
.ft I
@address data data ... data
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.LP
The address is a 4-byte address; the data address is divided by the
memory-wdith in bytes, to given a memory-width chunk address, rather
than a byte address.
.LP
Each chunk of data is separated from the address and the other chunks
by a space.  Each chunk contains a number of bytes indicated by the memory
width (1 byte for 8-bit, 2 bytes for 16-bits and 4 bytes for 32-bits).
The bytes are loaded least significant first.
.LP
There is no checksum in this format, which can generate false positives
when guessing file formats on inout.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 2.9 times
(32-bit), 3.1 times (16-bit) or 3.6 times (8-bit) when represented with
this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example Verilog VMEM file.
It contains the data ``Hello, World'' to be loaded at address 0x1000.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
@00000400 48656C6C 6F2C2057 6F726C64 0AFFFFFF
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
