'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 2003 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_formatted_binary.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_formatted_binary
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_formatted_binary \- Formatted Binary file format
.XX "srec_formatted_binary(5)" "Formatted Binary file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an old paper tape format.
.PP
The file startes with a charcter sequence which appears as an arrow when
punched on 8-hole paper tape.
.RS
0x08, 0x1C, 0x2A, 0x49, 0x08, 0x00
.RE
.PP
Then follows a byte count, encoded big-endian in the low 4 bits of the
next 4 bytes.  The high bits should be zero.
.PP
Then follows a 0xFF byte.
.PP
The data follows, as many bytes as specified in the header.
.PP
The trailer consists of the following bytes:
.RS
0x00, 0x00, 
.RE
and then a 2-byte checksum (big-endian).
.PP
The alternate header sequence
.RS
0x08, 0x1C, 0x3E, 0x6B, 0x08, 0x00
.RE
is followed by an 8-nibble big-endian byte count. 
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized very little
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
