'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 2000 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_ascii_hex.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_ascii_hex
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_ascii_hex \- Ascii-Hex file format
.XX "srec_ascii_hex(5)" "Ascii-Hex file format"
.PP
(Also known as the \fIAscii-Space-Hex\fP format.)
.LP
If you know who invented this format, please let me know.  If you have
a better or more complete description, I'd like to know that, too.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file startes with a Crontrol-B character (0x02).
.LP
Each data byte is represented as 2 hexadecimal characters,
and is separated by white space from all other data bytes.
.LP
The address for data bytes is set by using a sequence of
\f[CW]$A\fP\f[CI]nnnn\fP\f[CW],\fP characters, where \fInnnn\fP is the
4-character ascii representation of the address.  The comma is required.
There is no need for an address record unless there are gaps.  Implicitly,
the file starts a address 0 if no address is set before the first
data byte.
.LP
The file ends with a Control-C character (0x03).
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 3.0 times
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example ascii-hex file.
It contains the data ``Hello, World'' to be loaded at address 0x1000.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
^B $A1000,
48 65 6C 6C 6F 2C 20 57 6F 72 6C 64 0A ^C
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
