'\" t
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 2000, 2006, 2007 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_mos_tech.5 command
.\"
.ds n) srec_mos_tech
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_mos_tech \- MOS Technologies file format
.XX "srec_mos_tech(5)" "MOS Technologies file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Mos Technologies format allows binary files to be uploaded and
downloaded between between a computer system (such as a PC, Macintosh,
or workstation) and an emulator or evaluation board for microcontrollers
and microprocessors.
.SS The Lines
Each line consists of 5 fields.  These are the
length field, address field, data field, and the checksum.
The lines always start with a semicolon (;) character.
.br
.ne 2i
.SS The Fields
.TS
allbox,center,tab(&);
lf(CW) l l l l l.
;&Length&Address&Data&Checksum
.TE
.TP 8n
Length
The record length field is a 2 character (1 byte) field that specifies
the number of data bytes in the record.
.TP 8n
Address
This is a 2-byte address that specifies where the data
in the record is to be loaded into memory.
.TP 8n
Data
The data field contains the executable code, memory-loadable data
or descriptive information to be transferred.
.TP 8n
Checksum
The checksum is an 2-byte field that represents the least significant
two byte of the the sum of the values represented
by the pairs of characters making up the record's length, address, and
data fields.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 2.4 times
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example MOS Technologies format file.
It contains the data ``Hello, World'' to be loaded at address 0.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
S110000048656C6C6F2C20576F726C640A9D
;00
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so ../man1/z_copyright.so
