'\" t
.\" srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\" Copyright (C) 2022 fenugrec & Scott Finneran
.\"
.\" Original code contribution by fenugrec.
.\" Docs below expand on fenugrec's notes in the source.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_hp64k
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.if require_index \{
.XX "srec_hp64k(5)" "HP64000 Absolute Data Format"
.\}
.SH NAME
srec_hp64k \- HP64000 Absolute Data Format
.SH DESCRIPTION
This format is the output of the HP 64000 Development System Linker and
associated tools. All fields are 16-bit words.
This is a binary (non\[hy]text) file format.
.SS File Format
Files in this format start with a header record.
.PP
Then comes the Processor Information Record.
.PP
Then comes the data itself, organized into records.
.SS Overall Structure
.TS
allbox,tab(;);
ce ce ce ce ce.
T{
Magic
.br
Number
.br
0x8204
T};T{
Processor
.br
Information
.br
Record(PIR)
T};T{
Data
.br
Record #1
.br

T};T{

.br
------
.br
T};T{
Data
.br
Record #N
.br
(N <=127)
T}
.TE
.SS Header
The header consists of 8 words which are interpreted as a null terminated string:
.TS
allbox,tab(;);
ce ce ce.
T{
Data
.br
Word
.br
1
T};T{

.br
------
.br

T};T{
Data
.br
Word
.br
8
T}
.TE
.SS Processor Information Record (PIR)
The PIR does not have a checksum;
it is therefore possible that a corrupt file header will go undetected.
.TS
allbox,tab(;);
ce ce ce ce.
T{
Data
.br
Bus
.br
Width
T};T{
Data
.br
Width
.br
Base
T};T{
Transfer
.br
Address
.br
LS Word
T};T{
Transfer
.br
Address
.br
MS Word
T}
.TE
.SS Data Record
Each data record consists of a byte count followed by the commensurate number of words.
The data part of each record is raw byte values, no encoding.
.TS
allbox,tab(;);
ce ce ce ce ce ce.
T{
Number
.br
of
.br
Bytes
T};T{
Load
.br
Address
.br
LS Word
T};T{
Load
.br
Address
.br
MS Word
T};T{
Data
.br
Word
.br
1
T};T{

.br
------
.br
T};T{
Data
.br
Word
.br
N
T}
.TE
.PP
The checksum is calculated by a simple sum of unsigned bytes
into a 32\[hy]bit accumulator.
.SS Commentary
The implementation is based on two documents:
.TP 2n
.if n *
.if t \(bu
HP 64000 Logic Development System \[hy] File Format Reference Manual , #64980\[hy]90933, 1985
.TP 2n
.if n *
.if t \(bu
HP 64700 Operating Environment \[hy] Absolute File Translator. HP Part No. B1471\[hy]97008, 1992
.PP
These documents disagree on some points, and also do not quite match actual
examples (firmware update files from early 90's equipment; probably generated from an unknown
MC68k toolchain).
.PP
The main points of disagreement are:
.TP 2n
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Two first bytes of the file, before any header or the "Processor Information Record",
are not officially documented anywhere yet found. (68k linker docs may be
worth investigating if they can be found). In this implementation they are set
to "82 04", where 04 matches HP doc's "type" value of 4 for Absolute files.
.TP 2n
.if n *
.if t \(bu
Header: Only mentioned in B1471. 16 bytes of user data? Present in this implementation.
.TP 2n
.if n *
.if t \(bu
"recsize" (author's terminology) : redundant field, before every record, giving length of
its record minus 1, i.e. recsize == (DataRecord.numbytes + 6) \[hy] 1
.SH SOURCE
HP 64000 Logic Development System \[hy] File Format Reference Manual, #64980\[hy]90933, 1985
.UR https://archive.org/details/bitsavers_hp64000sof986_8480556
.UE

HP 64700 Operating Environment \[hy] Absolute File Translator. HP Part No. B1471\[hy]97008, 1992
.UR https://archive.org/details/bitsavers_hp64700sof008AbsoluteFileTranslatorMar92_143924
.UE
.ds n) srec_cat
.so man1/z_copyright.so
