'\" t
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"		OS65A module Copyright (c) 2022, 2023 Glitch Works, LLC
.\"		http://www.glitchwrks.com/
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_os65a
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_os65a \- Ohio Scientific 65A monitor load format
.if require_index \{
.XX "srec_os65a(5)" "Ohio Scientific 65A monitor load format"
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
This format is used by the Ohio Scientific 65A monitor. This
family of machines includes the Superboard II, C2, C4, C8,
and Challenger III, when operated with a serial console.
.PP
The file and each subsequent data block starts with a \[lq]R\[rq] to ensure
command mode.
A load operation is initiated with a \[lq]L\[rq], then a 4\[hy]digit hex
address.
There is no need for additional address specifications unless there are gaps in
the data file.
.LP
If no address information is provided, data is assumed to start at 0x0000.
To omit the initial address, use \[lq]-enable optional_address\[rq].
It is not advisable to overwrite data in the first 512 bytes of memory space
without extreme care.
.LP
Each data byte is represented as two hexadecimal characters.
The 65A monitor ignores all non-hexadecimal or command characters, but default
formatting is 32 bytes per line, with a carriage return, line feed combination
(0x0D, 0x0A) at the end of line. This provides clean formatting when pasting
into a terminal.
.LP
Data loading is concluded with a \[lq]R\[rq] to return to command mode.
If an address to start execution is specified, then it is entered into addresses
0x012E and 0x012F, followed by a \[lq]R\[rq] to return to command mode, and a
\[lq]G\[rq] to transfer execution to the specified address.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 2.3 times
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example Ohio Scientific 65A monitor load file.
It contains the data \[lq]Hello, World\[rq] to be loaded at address 0x1000,
with execution at 0x1010.
.LP
RL1000
.br
48656C6C6F2C20576F726C64
.br
RL012E1010RG
.LP
When loading into the 65A monitor, \[lq]R\[rq] will not be shown, and
will be replaced with a carriage return, line feed combination.
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.so man1/z_copyright.so
