'\" t
.\"	srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998, 2001, 2005, 2006 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the srec_info command
.\"
.ds n) srec_info
.TH \*(n) 1 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_info \- information about eprom load files
.XX "srec_info(1)" "information about eprom load files"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename \&...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to
obtain input about eprom load files.
It reads the files specified, and then presents statistics about them.
These statistics include: the file header if any, the start address if any, and the address ranges covered by the data if any.
.so o_input.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_at.so
.TP 8n
.B -Help
.br
Provide some help with using the
.I \*(n)
program.
.TP 8n
\fB\-IGnore_Checksums\fP
.so o_ignore_checksums.so
.so o_sequence.so
.so o_multiple.so
.TP 8n
.B -VERSion
.br
Print the version of the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so z_options.so
.so z_exit.so
.so z_copyright.so
